pd_xpyd/readme.md, before:

# Guide to Setting Up PD Disaggregation with Mooncake

> **Note**: This document does not cover MLA data parallel setup.

## Mooncake Installation

### Install via pip

```bash
apt install etcd -y
pip install mooncake-transfer-engine==0.3.0b3
```

### Install from Source

```bash
# Install required packages
apt install git wget curl net-tools sudo iputils-ping etcd -y

# Clone the Mooncake repository
git clone https://github.com/kvcache-ai/Mooncake.git -b v0.3.0-beta
cd Mooncake

# Install dependencies
bash dependencies.sh

# Build and install Mooncake
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j
make install
```

### Setting up RDMA (Optional)

To enable RDMA for high-speed data transfer, follow these steps:

```bash
apt remove ibutils libpmix-aws
wget https://www.mellanox.com/downloads/DOCA/DOCA_v2.10.0/host/doca-host_2.10.0-093000-25.01-ubuntu2204_amd64.deb
dpkg -i doca-host_2.10.0-093000-25.01-ubuntu2204_amd64.deb
apt-get update
apt-get -y install doca-ofed

# Check RDMA devices and network interfaces
ibdev2netdev
# Example output:
# mlx5_0 port 1 ==> ens108np0 (Up)
# mlx5_1 port 1 ==> ens9f0np0 (Up)
# ...
```

> **Note**: If you are running RDMA inside a Docker container, add the `--privileged` flag to the `docker run` command to ensure proper hardware and network access.

## PD Disaggregation Usage

### 1. Prepare and Modify `mooncake.json`

Create and configure the `mooncake.json` file. Example configuration:

```json
{
     "local_hostname": "192.168.0.137",
     "metadata_server": "etcd://192.168.0.137:2379",
     "protocol": "tcp",
     "device_name": "",
     "master_server_address": "192.168.0.137:50001"
}
```

- Set `metadata_server` to the etcd server address.
- Set `master_server_address` to the Mooncake master node address.
- Set `local_hostname` to the node's IP address.

To use RDMA:
- Change `protocol` to `rdma`.
- Set `device_name` to the RDMA device name (e.g., `mlx5_0` or the interface name from `ibdev2netdev`).

> **Note**: The `mooncake.json` configuration differs for prefill and decode instances. Update the IP addresses accordingly based on the specific setup.

### 2. Start the etcd Server on the Master Node

```bash
etcd --listen-client-urls http://0.0.0.0:2379 --advertise-client-urls http://localhost:2379 > etcd.log 2>&1 &
```

### 3. Start the `mooncake_master` Server on the Master Node

```bash
mooncake_master --enable_gc true --port 50001
```

### 4. Start the Prefill Instance

```bash
export MOONCAKE_CONFIG_PATH=./mooncake.json
export PT_HPU_LAZY_MODE=1
export VLLM_MLA_DISABLE_REQUANTIZATION=1
export PT_HPU_ENABLE_LAZY_COLLECTIVES="true"

python3 -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api_server \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --port 8100 \
    -tp 8 \
    --gpu-memory-utilization 0.9 \
    --kv-transfer-config '{"kv_connector":"MooncakeStoreConnector","kv_role":"kv_producer"}'
```

### 5. Start the Decode Instance

```bash
export MOONCAKE_CONFIG_PATH=./mooncake.json
export PT_HPU_LAZY_MODE=1
export VLLM_MLA_DISABLE_REQUANTIZATION=1
export PT_HPU_ENABLE_LAZY_COLLECTIVES="true"

python3 -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api_server \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --port 8200 \
    -tp 8 \
    --gpu-memory-utilization 0.9 \
    --kv-transfer-config '{"kv_connector":"MooncakeStoreConnector","kv_role":"kv_consumer"}'
```

### 6. Start the Proxy Server

```bash
python3 examples/online_serving/disagg_examples/disagg_proxy_demo.py \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --prefill $prefill_node_ip:8100 \
    --decode $decode_node_ip:8200 \
    --port 8000
```

- Set `prefill_node_ip` and `decode_node_ip` based on the actual machine addresses.

## Testing

### Test with OpenAI-Compatible Request

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
    "prompt": "San Francisco is a",
    "max_tokens": 1000
}'
```

- If not testing on the proxy server, replace `localhost` with the proxy server's IP address.

### Test Accuracy with `lm_eval`

```bash
pip install lm_eval
pip install lm-eval[api]

lm_eval --model local-completions \
    --tasks gsm8k \
    --model_args model=deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1,base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=1 \
    --batch_size 1 \
    --log_samples \
    --output_path ./lm_eval_output \
    --num_fewshot 3
```

Commit message:

doc: only support in vllm v0
Signed-off-by: zhenwei <zhenweiliu@habana.ai>

pd_xpyd/readme.md, after:

# Guide to Setting Up PD Disaggregation with Mooncake

> **Note**: This document does not cover MLA data parallel setup. Currently, PD disaggregation is only supported with vllm-hpu v0.

## Mooncake Installation

### Install via pip

```bash
apt install etcd -y
pip install mooncake-transfer-engine==0.3.0b3
```

### Install from Source

```bash
# Install required packages
apt install git wget curl net-tools sudo iputils-ping etcd -y

# Clone the Mooncake repository
git clone https://github.com/kvcache-ai/Mooncake.git -b v0.3.0-beta
cd Mooncake

# Install dependencies
bash dependencies.sh

# Build and install Mooncake
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j
make install
```

### Setting up RDMA (Optional)

To enable RDMA for high-speed data transfer, follow these steps:

```bash
apt remove ibutils libpmix-aws
wget https://www.mellanox.com/downloads/DOCA/DOCA_v2.10.0/host/doca-host_2.10.0-093000-25.01-ubuntu2204_amd64.deb
dpkg -i doca-host_2.10.0-093000-25.01-ubuntu2204_amd64.deb
apt-get update
apt-get -y install doca-ofed

# Check RDMA devices and network interfaces
ibdev2netdev
# Example output:
# mlx5_0 port 1 ==> ens108np0 (Up)
# mlx5_1 port 1 ==> ens9f0np0 (Up)
# ...
```

> **Note**: If you are running RDMA inside a Docker container, add the `--privileged` flag to the `docker run` command to ensure proper hardware and network access.

## PD Disaggregation Usage

### 1. Prepare and Modify `mooncake.json`

Create and configure the `mooncake.json` file. Example configuration:

```json
{
     "local_hostname": "192.168.0.137",
     "metadata_server": "etcd://192.168.0.137:2379",
     "protocol": "tcp",
     "device_name": "",
     "master_server_address": "192.168.0.137:50001"
}
```

- Set `metadata_server` to the etcd server address.
- Set `master_server_address` to the Mooncake master node address.
- Set `local_hostname` to the node's IP address.

To use RDMA:
- Change `protocol` to `rdma`.
- Set `device_name` to the RDMA device name (e.g., `mlx5_0` or the interface name from `ibdev2netdev`).

> **Note**: The `mooncake.json` configuration differs for prefill and decode instances. Update the IP addresses accordingly based on the specific setup.

### 2. Start the etcd Server on the Master Node

```bash
etcd --listen-client-urls http://0.0.0.0:2379 --advertise-client-urls http://localhost:2379 > etcd.log 2>&1 &
```

### 3. Start the `mooncake_master` Server on the Master Node

```bash
mooncake_master --enable_gc true --port 50001
```

### 4. Start the Prefill Instance

```bash
export MOONCAKE_CONFIG_PATH=./mooncake.json
export PT_HPU_LAZY_MODE=1
export VLLM_USE_V1=0
export VLLM_MLA_DISABLE_REQUANTIZATION=1
export PT_HPU_ENABLE_LAZY_COLLECTIVES="true"

python3 -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api_server \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --port 8100 \
    -tp 8 \
    --gpu-memory-utilization 0.9 \
    --kv-transfer-config '{"kv_connector":"MooncakeStoreConnector","kv_role":"kv_producer"}'
```

### 5. Start the Decode Instance

```bash
export MOONCAKE_CONFIG_PATH=./mooncake.json
export PT_HPU_LAZY_MODE=1
export VLLM_USE_V1=0
export VLLM_MLA_DISABLE_REQUANTIZATION=1
export PT_HPU_ENABLE_LAZY_COLLECTIVES="true"

python3 -m vllm.entrypoints.openai.api_server \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --port 8200 \
    -tp 8 \
    --gpu-memory-utilization 0.9 \
    --kv-transfer-config '{"kv_connector":"MooncakeStoreConnector","kv_role":"kv_consumer"}'
```

### 6. Start the Proxy Server

```bash
python3 examples/online_serving/disagg_examples/disagg_proxy_demo.py \
    --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1 \
    --prefill $prefill_node_ip:8100 \
    --decode $decode_node_ip:8200 \
    --port 8000
```

- Set `prefill_node_ip` and `decode_node_ip` based on the actual machine addresses.

## Testing

### Test with OpenAI-Compatible Request

```bash
curl -s http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{
    "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
    "prompt": "San Francisco is a",
    "max_tokens": 1000
}'
```

- If not testing on the proxy server, replace `localhost` with the proxy server's IP address.

### Test Accuracy with `lm_eval`

```bash
pip install lm_eval
pip install lm-eval[api]

lm_eval --model local-completions \
    --tasks gsm8k \
    --model_args model=deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1,base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=1 \
    --batch_size 1 \
    --log_samples \
    --output_path ./lm_eval_output \
    --num_fewshot 3
```
